---
layout: post
title:  "size_t"
date:   2019-04-24 1:11:15 -0500
categories: C, C++
---
size_t deservers definitely a special attention. According to wikipedia:

According to the 1999 ISO C standard (C99), size_t is an unsigned integer type of at least 16 bit (see sections 7.17 and 7.18.3).

size_tis an unsigned data type defined by several C/C++ standards, e.g. the C99 ISO/IEC 9899 standard, that is defined in stddef.h.1 It can be further imported by inclusion of  stdlib.h as this file internally sub includes stddef.h.

This type is used to represent the size of an object. Library functions that take or return sizes expect them to be of type or have the return type of size_t. Further, the most frequently used compiler-based operator sizeof should evaluate to a constant value that is compatible with size_t.

Most of the time they use size_t as a type that guaranteed holding any array index.

A couple of notes about working with size_t type. Interesting behavior occurs if try to contract one size_t value from another:

{% highlight cpp %}
size_t len1 = strlen(str1);
size_t len2 = strlen(str2);

int diff = len1 - len2;
{% endhighlight %}

The result is always going to be positive (no matter which variable (len1 or len2) contains a bigger number) since size_t is an unsigned type (according to C99).

Depending on the implementation theoretically size_t can be defined as any unsigned type. To check how size_t defined on a unix based OS:
{% highlight bash %}
echo | gcc -E -xc -include 'stddef.h' - | grep size_t
{% endhighlight %}

By the time I am writing this blog I am using macOS 10.14.4 (18E226) version of MacOS.
Here is what terminal returned after executing the previous command:
{% highlight bash %}
typedef long unsigned int size_t;
{% endhighlight %}
